<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-model href="http://www.tei-c.org/release/xml/tei/custom/schema/relaxng/tei_all.rng" ?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/xsl" href="tv/tv.xsl" ?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0">
    <teiHeader>
        <fileDesc>
            <titleStmt>
                <title>Awake ye muses nine, sing me a strain divine </title>
            </titleStmt>
            <publicationStmt>
                <p>The Poems of Emily Dickinson, Variorum Edition, Franklin, 1998</p>
            </publicationStmt>
            <sourceDesc>
                <p>Emily Dickinson Archive</p>
            </sourceDesc>
        </fileDesc>
    </teiHeader>
    <text>
        <body>
            <div type="transcript" id="F1A">
                <lg type="stanza">
                    <l>Awake ye muses nine, sing me a strain divine, </l>
                    <l>unwind the solemn twine, and tie my Valentine!  </l>
                    <l>           </l>
                    <l>Oh the Earth was <em>made</em> for lovers, for damsel, and hopeless swain, </l>
                    <l>for sighing, and gentle whispering, and <em>unity</em> made of <em>twain,</em> </l>
                    <l>all things do go a courting, in earth, or sea, or air, </l>
                    <l>God hath made nothing single but <em>thee</em> in his world so fair!  </l>
                    <l>The <em>bride,</em> and then the <em>bridegroom,</em> the <em>two,</em> and then the <em>one,</em> </l>
                    <l>Adam, and Eve, his consort, the moon, and then the sun; </l>
                    <l>the life doth prove the precept, who obey shall happy be, </l>
                    <l>who will not serve the sovreign, be hanged on fatal tree.</l>
                    <l>The high do seek the lowly, the great do seek the small, </l>
                    <l>none cannot find who <em>seeketh</em> on this terrestrial ball; </l>
                    <l>The bee doth court the flower, the flower his suit receives, </l>
                    <l>and they make a merry wedding, whose guests are hundred leaves; </l>
                    <l>the wind doth woo the branches, the branches they are won, </l>
                    <l>and the father fond demandeth the maiden for his son.<app type="division"><lem><pb/></lem></app>
  </l>
                    <l>The storm doth walk the seashore humming a mournful tune, </l>
                    <l>the wave with eye so pensive, looketh to see the moon, </l>
                    <l>their spirits meet together, they make them solemn vows, </l>
                    <l>no more he singeth mournful, her sadness she doth lose.</l>
                    <l>The <em>worm</em> doth woo the <em>mortal,</em> death claims a living bride, </l>
                    <l>night unto day is married, morn unto eventide; </l>
                    <l><em>Earth</em> is a merry damsel, and <em>Heaven</em> a knight so true, </l>
                    <l>and Earth is quite coquettish, and he seemeth in vain to sue.  </l>
                    <l><em>Now</em> to the <em>application,</em> to the reading of the roll, </l>
                    <l>to bringing thee to justice, and marshalling thy soul; </l>
                    <l>thou art a <em>human</em> solo, a being cold, and lone, </l>
                    <l>wilt have no kind companion, thou <em>reap'st</em> what thou hast <em>sown.</em> </l>
                    <l>Hast never silent hours, and minutes all too long, </l>
                    <l>and a deal of sad reflection, and <em>wailing</em> instead of song?</l>
                    <l>There's <em>Sarah,</em> and <em>Eliza,</em> and <em>Emeline</em> so fair, </l>
                    <l>and <em>Harriet,</em> and <em>Susan,</em> and she with <em>curling hair!</em> </l>
                    <l>Thine eyes are sadly blinded, but yet thou mayest see </l>
                    <l><em>six</em> true, and comely maidens sitting opon the tree; </l>
                    <l>approach that tree with caution, then up it boldly climb,</l>
                    <l>and seize the one thou lovest, nor care for <em>space,</em> or <em>time!</em> </l>
                    <l>Then bear her to the greenwood, and build for her a bower, </l>
                    <l>and give her what she asketh, jewel, or bird, or flower; </l>
                    <l>and bring the fife, and trumpet, and beat opon the drum -<app type="division"><lem><pb/></lem></app>
 </l>
                    <l>and bid the world Goodmorrow, and go to glory home!</l>
                </lg>

            </div>     
        </body>
    </text>
</TEI>
